FREQUENTLY ASKED QUESTIONS REGARDING B.TECH. ADMISSIONS
(A.Y.-2024-25)
Prospective students and Parents/ Guardians are requested to read the following Q&A
Note: Please avoid calling the institute’s officials over the phone. In case your doubts are not listed in
the FAQ’s then a brief email may be sent admissions@nitandhra.ac.in.
1. What is the website address of the Institute?
Ans: URL: www.nitandhra.ac.in
2. When did the Institute start and where is it located?
Ans: National Institute of Technology for the sunrise state of Andhra Pradesh was established as 31st
NIT in Tadepalligudem, West Godavari District, in the academic year 2015-16.
3. How to reach the Institute?
Ans: Tadepalligudem is well connected by direct train services to most major cities of the country
like Hyderabad, Bangalore, Chennai, Vijayawada, Visakhapatnam, Kolkata etc. Tadepalligudem is
the nearest railway station to the Institute on Vijayawada – Visakhapatnam main line. The campus
of the Institute is about 10 minutes’ drive (3 km) from the Tadepalligudem railway station. Private
taxi or auto rickshaw can be hired to reach the Institute.
Tadepalligudem is also well connected to Rajahmundry (45 kms), Vijayawada (110 kms) and
Visakhapatnam (240 kms) by road transport. The nearest airports to Tadepalligudem are situated
at Rajahmundry, Vijayawada and Visakhapatnam. The nearest international airport to
Tadepalligudem is the Rajiv Gandhi International Airport (HYD), Hyderabad (400 kms from
Tadepalligudem).
4. What is the status of permanent campus?
Ans: A new campus has been established with 172.6 acres of land adjacent to Chennai-Kolkata
Highway (NH-16) in the air-strip lands of Tadepalligudem. Presently the institute is fully running from
the permanent campus.
5. How is the climate in Tadepalligudem?
Ans: The region of Tadepalligudem, where NIT Andhra Pradesh is located, experiences rains from June
to November. It is advised that students may come prepared with raincoats and/or umbrellas etc.
6. What is the mode of admission?
Ans: Admissions are based on the All-India Rank obtained at JEE(Mains) examination through
JoSAA/CSAB counseling procedure.
7. What are the eligibility criteria for admission?
Ans: The criteria for admission into the institute are same as that of other NITs, and prescribed by CSAB-
2024.
8. What are the courses offered in B. Tech.?
Ans: B. Tech. is offered in 8 engineering branches: Biotechnology, Chemical Engineering, Civil
Engineering, Computer Science & Engineering, Electrical & Electronics Engineering, Electronics and
Communication Engineering, Mechanical Engineering, Metallurgical & Materials Engineering.
9. How many seats are reserved for home state and other states?
Ans: In each branch, 50% of total seats are reserved for home state students and rest of the seats (50%)
are for students from other states.

10. What is the home state of the Institute?
Ans: Andhra Pradesh.
11. I was born in Vijayawada, studied up to X standard in Vijayawada but I have completed
intermediate in Hyderabad. Will I be considered under home state quota for NIT Andhra
Pradesh?
Ans: NO. As per the home state definition of CSAB, your home state will be Telangana and hence you
will be considered under Other State quota for admission into NIT Andhra Pradesh. For further details
regarding home state and other state, refer to CSAB website and admission brochure.
12. I have got 175 marks in JEE (Mains) or percentile is 95 Can I get a seat in NIT Andhra Pradesh?
Ans: Admission into any NIT does not depend on the marks obtained. It depends purely on the All-
India Rank and you may wait till the ranks are announced by NTA.
13. What is the opening and closing ranks of the students admitted last year?
Ans: The Opening (OR) and Closing Rank (CR) of different category of students admitted to NIT Andhra
Pradesh in the previous years are available on the institute website, www.nitandhra.ac.in.
14. How many seats are available branch-wise, category-wise?
Ans: The seat matrix of institutions for the academic year 2024-25 is available on JoSAA and CSAB
website. The same information with respect to NIT Andhra Pradesh for the AY 2024-25 is available on
the JoSAA/CSAB website.
15. Is there any seat available for the candidates belong to the EWS category in NIT AP?
Ans: EWS seats are introduced in NIT Andhra Pradesh from the AY 2021-22, as per the GoI norms.
16. What are the programs offered at the Institute?
Ans: Bachelor of Technology (B.Tech.) and Ph.D. (both Full -Time and Part-Time).
17. What is the current strength of faculty and staff?
Ans: NIT AP has recruited 43 regular faculties to supplement and strengthen the teaching process
besides 100 Ad-hoc faculty members also serve the institute. Most of the faculty members have
doctorates and NIT AP provides good academic ambience for teaching-learning process. NIT AP also
recruited 68 regular non-teaching staffs in 2019.
18. Do you have branch change at the end of first year?
Ans: No, branch change option is not available to the candidates, who will be taking admission in the
A.Y. 2024-25.
19. What about the placements and pay packages?
Ans:
Placement statistics of 2022-23
No. of Students Registered for Placements: 311
No. of Students got placed: 270
Percentage of Placements: 86.82%
Average Package: 8.04 LPA
Lowest Package: 4 LPA
Highest Package: 47 LPA
Placement statistics of 2023-24 (Till May 2024)
No. of Students Registered for Placements: 391
No. of Students got placed: 250
Percentage of Placements: 63.94%
Average Package: 7.22 LPA
Lowest Package: 3.6 LPA
Highest Package: 44.1 LPA
20. When will the class work start for B.Tech. Ist year students of 2024-28 batch?
Ans: It will be announced through the Institute website. Please visit the website on a regular basis.
21. What is the Academic schedule?
Ans: It is normally 5 days a week, Saturday and Sunday are holidays.
22. What about the availability of Hostels?
Ans: NITs are basically 100% residential campuses. NIT AP also provides hostel facilities. All the students
are required to stay only in hostels. However, students from nearby places, who want to stay with their
Parents/ Guardians have to take prior permission from the hostel office and Dean student welfare.
23. Is the institute completely residential?
Ans: Yes. All the students are expected to stay in hostels.
24. What type of accommodation is provided in hostels?
Ans: The hostels are either single-seater or multi-seater based on availability.
25. What is the quality of food in the messes?
Ans: Utmost care is taken to provide hygienic food to the students.
26. I am from Tadepalligudem / my parents live in Tadepalligudem. Can I attend the institute
as day-scholar?
Ans: You need to take permission to attend the institute as day-scholar by submitting the required
proof for the same from the hostel office.
27. What are the arrangements for medical assistance?
Ans: Required medical services like dispensary, ambulances are available inside the campus. The
services of full-time and part-time doctors are also available.
28. Is there any quota for NRI or other foreign national students?
Ans: Yes, through Study-in-India, DASA, ICCR, MEA etc. Please visit the Institute website for the details
regarding the foreigner’s admission.
For information related to the library visit https://nitandhra.ac.in/main/library.php

For information related to internships visit https://nitandhra.ac.in/main/inir.php