T&P Rules (as ratified by the Chairman, Senate)
As per the note approval by Director with ref no: NITANP/ODSR/CLTP/2024/Aug/01 dated
28.08.2024, the following rules and regulations are to be abided by students while availing career
guidance services from the Training and Placement section:
1. Students shall be responsible to verify whether the terms and conditions of the job are
agreeable and to get their doubts (if any) clarified regarding the terms and conditions of the
employment from the HR concerned.
2. Once applied, a student shall go through the hiring process completely, without dropping in
the middle.
3. Students from CSE are allowed to get selected in two IT or Software companies. After that
they are not allowed to attend any recruitment drives.
4. Students from Departments other than CSE are allowed to get selected for one core and one
IT job. If such students get selected in one core, they will not be allowed to apply for other
core companies, and similarly, if non-CSE students get selected in an IT firm, they will not
be permitted to apply for other IT companies.
5. If a student gets selected in a company, then for the student to be eligible to apply for any
other company, the CTC of the company should be at least 1.5 times that of the company in
which the student was previously placed. CTC is considered as inclusive of Fixed pay +
variable pay + any other allowances.
6. If a student’s name appears in the final selection list of a company, one of the two chances
shall be treated as being consumed by the student, irrespective of the student accepting or
rejecting the offer.
7. Rules (3) to (6) shall apply only for on-campus recruitment drives. A student can get selected
for any number jobs through off-campus. However, they shall notify the same to the T&P
section along with the offer letter, for facilitating background checks by the company.
8. If any student misleads the T&P section with fake or false information and/or engages in any
malpractice during any recruitment drive, then such a student will be prohibited from
availing the services of the T&P section. Chairman, Institute’s disciplinary committee will be
the authority to impose this sanction upon recommendation from AD (SCAIR) dealing with
placements and Dean (SCAIR). Malpractices include but not limited to the following:
a. Any act by a student which tarnishes the reputation of the Institute.
b. Malpractice in tests and / or interviews conducted during recruitment drives.
c. Misbehavior by students with T&P staff and Company representatives.
d. Deliberate absence from written tests and/or interview(s) after applying for a
Company.
e. Deliberate underperformance by a student.
9. Late applications after the deadline and late submission of CVs or proforma shall be
summarily rejected and no communication in this regard shall be entertained.
10. Once a Student joins a company after graduation, the student shall not be considered for any
recruitment drive organized by the T&P section.
11. The following mandatory instructions shall be followed by a Student for attending an on-
campus drive:
a) Students must be available at the venue at least 30 minutes before the scheduled time. No
student shall be allowed after the scheduled time.
b) The following dress code shall be followed:
a. For boys: Neat, ironed white shirt and black pants, leather shoes (action shoes not
allowed), leather belt, clean-shaven with properly combed hair
b. For girl students: White formal shirt with black trousers, white kurta with black
leggings, or white and black salwar kameez. Make sure your attire is formal and
plain, with no prints, extra effects, or designs.
c) Wearing the institute's ID card is mandatory. Without the ID card, a student will not be
allowed to attend the drive.
d) Bringing one of the following government ID proof is mandatory: Aadhar card, driving
license, passport, or voter ID card, along with three photocopies of the Govt. issued ID
card.
e) Two sets of the latest CVs shall be brought with a signature at the end, along with the
date.
f) Four latest color passport-sized photos shall be brought.
g) Two sets of photocopies of all marksheets (from 10th grade till the semester for which
results were published by the Dean (Academics)) and certificates (if any) related to
internships, extracurricular or co-curricular activities, awards, and recognitions shall be
brought.
12. For any grievances related to training and placements, Dean (SCAIR) shall be the redressal
authority.

For additional placement related information visit https://nitandhra.ac.in/main/tnp.php