T&P Guidelines to Students
NAIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, ANDHRA
PRADESH
TRAINING & PLACEMENT SECTION
PLACEMENT NORMS
NIT Andhra Pradesh (NITAP) is a fledgling institute committed to providing
world class education to students from across the country at present in the under-
graduate level and provide the industry with people resources capable of becoming
highly respected leaders in the Indian Industry.
The second object is to focus on advanced research in the field of Information
Technology and Industry.
These two objectives influence all the activities in the institution including the
Training and Placement Policy and Philosophy.
It is, thus, our Endeavour to bring a wide range of, primarily, IT organizations &
Industries on Campus. Over a period of time, we would also like to have Companies
that are high IT users and have significant sized teams.
To enable us build a strong brand of the institution, we have put together a set of
placement norms, which, we believe, will serve the interests of all the stakeholders –
the students, the industry and NIT, Andhra Pradesh. The primary purpose of this
policy, thus, is to protect the integrity of the placement process.
Eligibility:
This policy applies to all students enrolled at NITAP. They have been formed by the
NITAP Placement Office to ensure a fair process and equal opportunity to all
students and in keeping with the objectives of NITAP.
These Rules are intended to provide clear guidelines for ethical use of the services of
the NITAP Training and Placement Services. The Prof.in charge make available a
set of FAQs to all students to provide clarify common questions with regard to the
process and the policy.

General
1. In the Sixth (VI th) Semester each student will have to clearly indicate to the
Placement Section about his/her interest: a job or academics (research etc.)
2. Only students with an average attendance of 70% and above will be entitled to
take part in the placement process
3. All fees and payments to the institution must be cleared a week before the
onset of the placement week. Pending dues will disallow the student from
participating in the process.
4. All students, aspiring to utilize the services of the Placement Section, must
have a minimum CGPA of 6.0 as of the VI th semester.
5. Any history of misconduct in the Institute or outside – since the
commencement of the programme – will be available with the Placement
Section for reference of Companies. In the event of a grave misconduct or
substance abuse, the Placement Section will disallow a student from
participating in the process.
6. As a general practice, all students, participating in the placement process must
not plan for any out of town trips. Any such trips – planned or sudden – must
be communicated in advance to the Training and Placement Office and must
receive its clearance.
7. If a student is extremely keen on participating in the process for a particular
Company, but due to exigencies is unable to do so, he/she must clearly
communicate this to the Placement Office forthwith so that the Placement
Section may dialogue with the Company and try to organize an alternate plan.
8. A student shall make all reasonable efforts to participate in the process at the
scheduled time and place. If a student must miss or does miss the scheduled
process he / she shall:
1. Notify the Office of Training and Placement Section of the missed
interview; and,
2. Submit a written apology to the interviewer (with a copy to the Training
and Placement Office) within three days of the missed interview,
explaining the reasons for the student's failure to appear.
T&P Guidelines to Students - Page No. 3
9. Mobile phones, calculators, palm-tops, laptops or recorders will not be
allowed in the premises during the placement process.
Pre-Placement Norms:
1. All students will have to have their ID cards with them during the process.
2. All students must submit the final version of their Résume to the Placement
Section a fortnight prior to the commencement of the Placement Season.
3. The student must indicate – as per the attached form – his/her interest in a
Company visiting the Campus at least 48 hours prior to the beginning of the
selection process by that Company.
4. The student may change his/her mind about participating in the placement
process for a Company and can withdraw from the process up to 24 hours
prior to the beginning of the selection process by that Company.
5. Students will also have to clearly indicate any Job offers made by a Company
outside the campus process, prior to the commencement of the placement
season. If the offer is from a Company they have interned with during the
course, it will be considered as an offer received on Campus and treated as the
1st offer.
6. Resumes shall conform to the following specifications regarding particular
representations
a. Grades - A student shall present his most current cumulative grade
point average, rounded to the nearest two decimal places.
b. Rank - NITAP class rank may not be estimated on the resume. Any
information provided by the student on this will be only an
approximation and will not be, as a practice, confirmed by the
Placement Section.
c. NITAP Organizations and Activities - Each organization at NITAP,
shall be responsible for providing the Training and Placement Office
with an accurate and current list of its officers, members, and
participants. A student's representation on his resume regarding his
status in an organization shall conform to that organization's statement.
T&P Guidelines to Students - Page No. 4
Attire Policy
All students participating in the process will have to adhere to the Attire Code
indicated below; .for any stage of the placement process. The emphasis is also on
being neat and well groomed. All clothes should be freshly laundered and pressed.
MEN
SHIRTS Long sleeved, white shirts either plain or with vertical
stripes in light shades with a tie. Prints of any kind are
to be avoided.
TROUSERS Black color trousers.
FOOTWEAR Black or Brown shoes in leather. Slippers of any sort
are not permitted.
GROOMING Neatly shaved and trimmed. Manicured.
WOMEN GROOMING
Sari or Churidar formal attire, with shoes or sandals (as
appropriate) is the general rule.
Neat and “efficient” hairstyle. Distracting accessories
to be avoided.
Announcement of Results :
1. All Companies will anounce their results only to the Officer - Training and
Placement Section or any individual nominated by him/her on the particular day.
The results will be put up on the Notice Board only by a person designated by
the Training and Placement Officer.
Offers Policy :
The Office of Placement at NITAP will strive towards providing ample
opportunities to all its students. All Companies will send their written “offers of
appointment” only to the Training and Placement Officer. It will be his/her
responsibility to hand over the letters to the individual students. All formal
correspondence with the student until the Convocation will have to be done only
through the Training and Placement Office.
1. A student will be alive in the placement process up to receiving a confirmed
offer from a company till all the students are placed. The Office of the
Training and Placement and the Institute will review this policy later in the
year if a chance for a second job can be given.
T&P Guidelines to Students - Page No. 5
2. Any company wishing to make an offer of appointment must send the written
offer letter addressed to the student within a fortnight of the process. In the
absence of this, the student can continue in the placement process.
3. The terms, including the compensation, laid out in the offer letter should be
honored at the time of joining.
Ethics
1. A student shall not make false or misleading statements on his resume. The
Office of Training and Placement may examine resumes to verify the
accuracy of any statements contained therein, and to assure conformance with
rules indicated above.
2. A student shall participate in the placement process of a Company, unless the
student has a good faith interest in employment with that employer.
3. At no time will any student try to contact the Company directly – either on
Campus or off-Campus – to attempt to arrange an interview before or after the
date of the Company visit to the Institute, until completion of the Convocation
for the Batch.
4. A student may not, under any circumstances, examine the resume of another
student without the latter's express permission.
5. A student shall not make false or misleading statements during an interview,
including but not limited to expressions of serious interest in the potential
employer's work or location when the student's interest is tentative.
6. A student shall not comment on the qualifications of other students in the
course of an interview.
7. A student shall not accept an offer to interview with a potential employer at
his place of business unless the student has a good faith interest in
employment with that employer.
8. A student, – whose interview travel expenses are to be reimbursed by an
interviewer – shall inform that interviewer of other interviews, if any,
scheduled that geographic area during the same trip.
9. A student – whose interview travel expenses are to be reimbursed by an
interviewer – shall account for those expenses accurately and honestly.
10.The absence of a specific prohibition in the foregoing rules shall not be
inferred to permit behavior which is otherwise unethical or damaging to the
placement process. Nothing in these rules is intended to prevent the Training
and Placement Officer, from discharging the duties of his or her office by
confronting individual instances of misconduct which violate the spirit and
intent of these rules.
T&P Guidelines to Students - Page No. 6
Enforcement Procedures
1. If a student has reasonable grounds for believing that another student has violated
these rules, he/she should make a confidential report to the Training and
Placement Office stating the name of the student(s) involved and the nature of the
alleged violation. In no event is a student authorized by these rules to undertake
his own investigation of possible violations by attempting to interrogate
interviewers or other students, to review resumes, or otherwise to interfere with
Training and Placement Office operations.
2. Upon receipt of a report that these rules have been violated, or upon its own
information, the Officer - Training and Placement Section shall investigate the
incidents giving rise to such reports or information, and shall prepare a written
summary of its findings This summary – which will be sent to the Director and
the Student shall provide sufficient information to give the student notice of the
nature of the alleged offense, but shall maintain the confidentiality of witnesses if
possible.
3. The Training and Placement Officer shall arrange an interview with the student to
allow the student to rebut any evidence of misconduct, or to offer any
explanations of the questioned conduct that the student believes are relevant.
4. If, following an interview with the student involved, the Training and Placement
Officer finds that a violation has occurred, she shall impose an appropriate
sanction.
Possible Sanctions
1. Sanctions which may be imposed for any violation of these rules include
immediate suspension from the privilege to participate in the placement process
of NITAP for a specified or indefinite period, and permanent revocation of the
privilege to participate in the placement process of NITAP.
2. Without limiting the foregoing, the following are suggested as minimum
sanctions for particular violations.
• First violation – No sanction beyond written apology for any violation.
• Second violation – Four week suspension from the placement process
• False statements – Revocation of the placement privilege both on campus and
from the Alumni Placement Process – planned in future by the Training and
placement Section , NITAP Office.